At its highest level, I think of governance as
a bridge between the organization and security.
That doesn't mean that governance professionals are managing
or overseeing the rest of the GRC roles per se.
It does mean that governance professionals have a higher number of
opportunities to influence a wide range of stakeholders,
for instance, they tend to spend lots of time
managing policies and procedures that focus on both security and on end-users.
Like the information security policy,
and also the acceptable use policy,
or if you've ever had to sit through security training and accompany,
you can thank of Governance Professional,
they probably created it.
Now, just through those couple of examples,
you can begin to see how they influence end users.
In addition to that,
there are also charged with helping to align
the security strategy with overall business strategy.
Before we spend much more time talking about influence,
there is a second critical function that governance professionals play,
they also measure security controls to ensure that they're operating as expected.
In fact, this is a core day-to-day governance activity.
In future lessons, we'll talk about how
risk management professionals ensure that controls address risk,
and how compliance can influence or dictate what controls, actually, exist.
But the Governance Professional in its oversight role is more
concerned with whether security controls are producing expected results,
they do this by designing tests,
measuring the control, and using the results to align controls with operational strategy.
Let's look at a quick example.
What do we mean by a control producing expected results or being effective.
Imagine for a moment that your organization has a web filter mechanism in place.
The organization intends to block some broad categories of websites including gambling,
adult themed websites, time wasting websites,
or even weapon based websites.
This is not an uncommon scenario,
the control is the Web filter mechanism,
the job of the Governance Professional is to measure
whether or not the control that web filter is working as intended.
In this case, are these websites, actually, being blocked?
We're not making any judgment about whether the categories are
correct or whether this creates a reduces risk,
the only question we're trying to answer is,
are these website's blocked?
If they are, your control is producing as expected.